## State-of-Project 5/30 (sprint 1 report)

The initial goals of this sprint where the following:
- Create the classes needed to represent graphs of an arbitrary type (e.g. with without weights, directed or undirected) as well as notable special cases of graphs such as trees, rooted or otherwise  
- Implement some key algorithms graph theory algorithms that will be needed going forward. In particular shortest path algorithms

The first goal was a full success. The types of graphs in general are directed vs undirected, and weighted versus unweighted. For simplicity sack we consider an unweighted graph to be a weighted graph in which the weight is always one. DirectedGraph and UndirectedGraph are the two highest level non-abstract graph - although they both inherit from AbstractGraph for shared functionality. I have also implemented a subclass of undirected graph for Tree (which are defined as a fully connected graph with no cycles), and a subclass of them for rooted trees. 

In development of a method to verify if a given graph was a tree, I decided it would be useful to have operators to create a copy of a graph with a given node removed. This in turn caused me to reevaluate my use of reference type versus value type member properties of child components of a graph(its nodes and edges). A significant portion of the first half of this sprint was spent refactoring how the low level classes of nodes and edge where structure to minimize the use of reference type variable. Currently they both contain a reference to their parent graph, which can be null to indicate the object is an orphan and free to be added to other graphs (more details about this will be contained in the documentation to come over the next sprint), and all the other member properties of them are value types (or a reference to a list of value types). They use methods of their parent graph to translate those int/strings into references to other components of the graph.

While said operators where implemented, a different method was settled upon for verifying trees, so aside from the refactor developing them entailed, which has proven to be an excellent decision, they have yet to return on investment. Partly as a result of the delay implementing these operators, progress on the second front of this sprint was limited. Beyond the Tarjan SCC solver algorithm and Khan topological sort algorithm, which where already implemented by the start of this sprint, I have also implemented and algorithm to detect cycles in undirected graphs (used to verify trees) and to find the single source shortest paths in a directed acyclic graph. Algorithms I planned to implement this sprint that have been postponed include Dijkstra's shortest path algorithm and Floyd Warshall all pairs shortest path. I also at one point considered implementing Bellman-Ford this sprint as well; however, I decided that it has too niche of a use-case over Floyd-Warshall (large graphs with negative cycles specifically) to implement this. 

While I had to postpone the implementation of Dijkstra's algorithm I did make some progress to it in the form of developing a d-ary data structure as a test use-case of the rooted tree class. This structure is needed for efficient implementation of Dijkstra and will also prove useful in implementing the planned Prim's minimum spanning tree algorithm.

## Next Steps

My focus for the project for the sprint over the coming two weeks will be documentation and code review. I want to zoom out and take a look at the code base as a whole without being focused in the weeds of implementing details. This review will be the sprints first priority. Improvements I identify that can be implemented in a reasonably short time frame (say a few hours of work or less) will be implemented as part of the review; however, more involved task will be left for nest sprint to focus on the primary goal of this sprint. 

Once this review is complete and minor improvements implemented - the next goal will be creating through documentation of the existing code. I want to do this after the review so I am aware of any major refactors I anticipate implementing while writing it. This sprint's deadline is 6/13.   
